Local Variables:

Local variables are created inside a function and exist only during its execution. They cannot be accessed from outside the function.

Example 1: 
In this code, we are creating and accessing a local variable inside a function.

def greet():
    msg = "Hello from inside the function!"
    print(msg)
​
greet()

Output:
Hello from inside the function!
Explanation: We define greet() with a local variable msg and print it. Since msg exists only during the function's execution, it's accessed within the function. Calling greet() displays the message.

Example 2: 
In this example, we are creating a local variable inside a function and then trying to access it outside the function, which causes an error.

def greet():
    msg = "Hello!"
    print("Inside function:", msg)

greet()
print("Outside function:", msg)
Output

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/guest/sandbox/Solution.py", line 6, in <module>
    print("Outside function:", msg)
NameError: name 'msg' is not defined

Explanation: msg is a local variable inside greet() and can only be accessed there. Printing it outside causes an error because it doesn't exist globally.

Global Variables:

Global variables are declared outside all functions and can be accessed anywhere in the program, including inside functions.

In this example, we are creating a global variable and then accessing it both inside and outside a function.

msg = "Python is awesome!"
​
def display():
    print("Inside function:", msg)
​
display()
print("Outside function:", msg)

Output
Inside function: Python is awesome!
Outside function: Python is awesome!
Explanation: msg is a global variable accessible both inside and outside the display() function. Calling display() prints the global msg and printing msg outside the function works as expected.

Note: If a variable is not found inside a function (local scope), Python automatically looks for it in global scope. However, if a local variable has same name as a global one, it will shadow global variable inside that function.
